- Hello, hello everyone.
Hello, Brian.
- Hey.
- Hey, happy to have you here on the other channel
on Talk Python.
- Yeah.
- Been here many times,
but I don't know, have you been on the StreamYard
live stream variation?
- I don't think I've been on a live episode yet.
No.
- Yes, but if there's anyone who I've done a lot
of StreamYard live stream stuff with, it's you.
- Yeah, every week.
- Exactly, so for those of you who are all here,
Thanks for being here, comments and stuff in the live chat.
We'll try to make it part of the show.
I'll send them over to Brian.
And with that, let's kick it off, huh?
- Yeah.
- Brian, welcome back to Talk Python to me.
- Well, thank you.
It's good to be back.
- It's really good to have you back.
I don't know if you've noticed,
but over on Talk Python, I put up a guest page
and who is out of the 440 guests we've had,
you are the most common guest
and you are now pulling further away
from Brett Cannon and Anthony Shaw,
who are hot on your tails there.
So I'm sure people know you and are familiar with your work,
but for those who don't, quick introduction.
- Well, I probably give,
people probably know me from Python Bytes actually.
And also I have a podcast called Test & Code
that's kind of on pause right now,
but it'll start up again in a month or so.
And then, but, okay, so I am a software developer,
mostly embedded as, so day job, software,
embedded to C++ stuff, work with RF test equipment.
But I got involved with Python and pytest
around the testing part of that, the system level testing.
And then I started writing about pytest
and about test stuff, and then I started podcasting about it,
and then I started writing books about it
and all that sort of stuff.
So all of this came from me
and my love for Python and pytest
came from my embedded world.
So that's me.
- Yeah, I suspect a lot of people
don't really think about it that often,
but Python is great for testing things
that is not just other Python code.
- Yeah, I mean, there's a lot of people that like,
for instance, use it even to test websites
that are not written in Python,
just because, or not written, yeah,
not written in Python or not written,
like you can test Go, you can really test any website.
So if you can get access to it from Python,
you can test it with pytest.
- Right on, and we're gonna see a whole bunch
of cool tips and tricks and ideas
about how to do that with pytest and do it better.
'Cause as you said, you've been using it in your day job.
You've also been using it in a semi non-standard way, right?
like testing both C++ code and actual hardware,
which is pretty awesome.
And you've got a lot of exposure
through your book and other things.
So it's gonna be really fun.
- I also wanted to say that early on,
so getting started with podcasting is nerve wracking.
It's a stressful thing.
And way back when,
when I was just starting out on testing code,
you were very encouraging
and wanted me to be successful and keep going.
And that meant a lot, so thank you.
- No, thank you for saying that here on the show.
I really appreciate it.
And five, six years later, however long it's been,
you're still going for sure.
I mean, tomorrow we're doing another show on Python Bytes.
- Yeah, it's been great.
- Yeah, thanks.
All right, and I guess I did wanna give a shout out
to Python Bytes.
I don't speak about it that often on Talk Python,
every now and then I do,
but usually I'm speaking to guests
who maybe are not familiar with it.
but that's the show you and I do.
And so I really want to encourage people
who like the show to also check that one out.
Tell people what Python Bytes is real quick, Brian.
- Well, it's Python headlines,
news and headlines delivered directly to your earbuds.
But the gist of it is,
is we both pick a couple topics per week
and we don't even really talk about it ahead of time.
We just pick a couple of Python related topics
that we want to talk about
and could be like a new library,
could be an old library or a tool or a blog post
or something happening in the news.
And then we just talk about it for a few minutes.
And then the other one asks questions.
And when we have guests on, they come in too.
One of the things I really like about it
is it's always fresh.
And then also that people have said,
if a topic I'm not interested in,
I just wait a few minutes
and there'll be something else I can listen to.
So that's cool.
- Exactly, that's really fantastic
that it's just, it's always something new.
And, you know, it's great for us.
We are always on top of things, always learning,
but it's, I think it's really cool way to stay on top
of what's happening in the Python space.
- Yeah, and for me personally,
it's an excuse to stay on top of things
in the Python space.
So, yeah.
- Not just an excuse, a requirement.
You got to be on the microphone in two hours.
We're going to figure it out.
Yeah, awesome.
All right, now, also, I do want to point out
that over on Talk Python Training,
you did a really great course
calling Getting Started with pytest,
and people can check that out,
as well as for a couple years now,
you've iterated on your book,
Python Testing with pytest, onto the second edition.
So those are two really good resources.
I feel like you're probably gonna be drawing from
for some of these tips, right?
- Yeah, definitely.
And so the first book launched into having the ability
to be able to teach more people.
So I was able to teach other corporate people
and individuals.
And then I took that learning from like how to teach people
how to use pytest and use that to influence
the second edition, complete rewrite.
And then took all of that and leveraged it
into the short three, it's like three and a half hours.
It's really short for the getting started
with pytest course.
And I really kind of like what we've done with that.
You helped out a lot with that course as well.
- Yeah, I feel, I look back on my college career,
I don't know how you feel about this, Brian,
but I look back and think, you know,
a lot of times there's sort of the meme,
like that could have been an email for a meeting these days.
Like, I kind of feel that way about college.
Like a lot of stuff I did in college could have been,
it could have been four hours.
I could have been a four hour course
that I spent a week on, but no,
I spent a whole semester and you know.
- Yeah, exactly.
- Yeah.
- You feel the same way looking back?
(laughing)
- I do.
And yeah, there's a lot of stuff that I'm like,
wow, that could have been,
that could have been like even a half an hour course.
Just, yeah.
- Yeah, yeah, exactly.
So I feel like you've condensed it down really well here.
So people can check out the course
and they can check out the book as well.
So a lot of kind comments in the audience as well.
I'm seeing through your book.
So thank you folks.
Nice.
- Yeah, well, I guess I envisioned us
to kind of talk about this as a podcast,
but you leveled this up a little bit here.
You took this and put it together as an article.
So people will be able to come back to it, right?
This whole idea of these tips and tricks.
- Well, I wanted to, yes,
'cause we were bouncing around ideas for what to do.
And you mentioned like maybe some tips and tricks
from the course and pull them together as a episode.
And I'm like, you know what, I haven't ever done that.
So I pulled together a blog post
called pytest Tips and Tricks.
And it is a blog post, but it's at pythontest.com.
But I do want to keep it going.
So I'll probably, some of these topics,
I'll probably bring into,
create full articles out of them.
And some of them are just as good as is things.
- It's a living blog post.
- Yes.
And you started it.
So there was a bunch of the,
you started a document that had some of the stuff
that you pulled out.
I don't know where you got all this,
these stuff that you started from.
- I went through your course.
I paid attention.
- Nice.
So, cool.
- No, it's good.
There's a lot of, you know, for a,
like a getting started sort of story,
there's a lot of really good tips that I think are,
are useful for a lot of folks.
All right.
you know, let's let's jump in there. You've broken into these
different areas. And let's maybe I'll kick it over to your screen
for you to Okay, yeah, but yeah, let's kick it off.
Yeah, so the I want to start out really with with one of the
things that it's so simple to start pytest. So they like the
like, and I think a lot of people get into it. So it's
really simple and easy to use. If you to start with, you can just write a file called test
underscore something and then stick a function in it called test underscore something and
that pytest will run that and if you can access whatever you can access with that, you can
get started and I think it's it's it's a really cool feature of pytest that you can get started
that easily, but also I don't think very many people like learn too much more. They'll like
look up, they'll like, somebody will mention fixtures.
So they'll look that up or parameterization.
They'll look that up.
Probably they'll say, how do you catch an exception?
This is supposed to be an exception.
Like, how do I do that?
And maybe, yeah, I'm going to say that part.
Sorry.
I got to say that part, that aspect of it confused me a little
bit when I first did PI test.
I'm like, well, how, how do I make it do PI test things?
I just, it's a, it's just a file.
And then there I sure I can do Python asserts, but how do I do.
like tell pytest is supposed to be greater than seven or not.
Yeah, a lot of sort of implicit magic behind the scenes as part of that, right?
Yeah, there is.
And I like, for instance, just using normal asserts, because with like unit
tests, you have to do a whole bunch of extra assert methods and helper methods
and stuff, and you have to derive with unit.
And it's it's often people coming from unit test or some other X unit style
that are confused at the simplicity because people are used to deriving
from a test class or something.
And then I actually had saw the reverse of it.
I saw people that were not used to X unit style.
They just wanted to write some test code.
And this whole notion on the unit test
of deriving from a class,
I saw a whole bunch of people that I tried to teach
at unit test to say,
oh, well, I'm gonna have to go and learn about
like object oriented programming.
And I'm like, oh, you don't.
It's just the structure, that's all.
You don't need to know how to use it.
But so that's one of the nice things.
So I have on the screen just a simple test.
I've also had a lot of people ask me,
well, can you give me a template
for what a default template for a unit test or a test?
And I'm like, well, it's just test underscore.
That's your template.
I mean, there's nothing to put in it.
So I've said, okay, for my template,
you get at the top of your test, you're right.
Getting ready for like a comment that's like getting ready
for set up or something.
And then you set up all the stuff
and then you do an action in the middle.
And then at the end you assert what if the action worked
and there you go, there's a template.
- There's two traditional styles of structuring this.
The early testing days where the three A's
the arrange act in a shirt, which is kind of a little bit
like what you got here.
And then there's the given when then,
which I feel like a little more BDD world.
- Yeah, so I learned given when then
with when some of the early writings around BDD,
and I just liked it.
I liked the notion of like, oh, given some state,
if I do that, when I do something, then something happens
and I can test that something.
Now there wasn't any structure around it.
There wasn't any code.
So now BDD has these Gherkin syntaxes and stuff.
And for people that that works for, awesome.
It just doesn't work for me.
But the notion of behavior-driven development,
not the syntax, but the notion of,
think about the different behaviors of the system
and test for it, that I love.
But the given when then and arrange active search
essentially the same thing.
But anyway.
Do you feel like the nomenclature of BDD
maybe hampered its adoption?
Like talking about like cucumber and gherkin
and you go to your boss and say,
"We're working on the gherkin fathering.
I mean, you need to do real work."
- I think, I don't wanna be a pessimist,
but I really think what happened,
my guess is that it's such a simple concept
that there wasn't hardly anything to charge people for
as a consultant.
So--
- Yeah, or to give speeches and conference talks about
or whatever, right?
- Yeah, but if you add like this extra Gherkin layer
on top of it,
now you have something you can train people about.
- There you go.
Way to productize it.
- Maybe.
But so I think it's all good, just don't pay for it.
- Before we move on from this topic,
I think the arrange act assert
or the given when then is a really nice way
to think about it.
But I think there's still a large set of folks
who struggle to know what scale should this be?
Should I do 15 asserts?
I've done all the work to get them ready.
Should I do one assert?
If I do two, am I failing?
I was supposed to do one, now two is the wrong,
you know, it's too many.
How do you feel about what goes
under those three comment sections?
I'm glad you brought that up.
So really the one action should be like one function call
or one method call or something,
if you can get away with that.
And the getting ready stuff,
it could be a lot, especially for the first time.
So one comment, dollar-driven development, that's funny.
- That's funny.
We're gonna get to fixtures later,
but I think it's okay if it's a whole bunch of setup.
So it could be like a ton of setup that you have,
like most of your code of your function
might be getting ready to test something.
And especially for the first iteration of the test,
that's fine, I think.
And then, but, and that's where it's good to have comments
or a comment, even like a very visible comment block
with a bunch of lines and stuff like that
to separate the different parts.
As far as the asserts, there's a lot of people that think
like you have to do just one assert
and you're failing as a developer
if you do more than one assert.
And I think that's not true.
There's problems with doing more than one assert,
but if you're, am I doing an action
and if there's like several things I have to test
about whether or not the action is right,
like in my world with the RF systems,
I'm setting up a signal and I'm measuring a signal.
Now, what is the, if I, to test that I got the right signal
at the end, I might be testing the power level
and the burst width and the burst length.
Then I might be testing a whole bunch of stuff around it.
And yes, I could separate those all into different tests,
but if it's really just,
it's really conceptually the same thing,
I think it's fine to have multiple asserts.
But if you really don't want to,
there's ways to get around not doing multiple asserts.
use semicolons a lot of ands?
- Well, you can, like you can stick like a whole,
like for Booleans, for instance,
if you had like six Booleans you were testing,
you could stick those in a list
and compare the list to a list of expected Booleans.
- Sure, you could, I mean, you're kind of like saying like,
how can we draw this out?
But there are legitimate ways,
like you could use the any iterator type of thing,
or you could use the all, say,
all of these things have to pass this,
or if any of them fail, then that's a certain not any,
something like that, right?
- Yeah.
Yeah, and one of the problems of not doing that
is that your test stops at the first failure.
So, and if that's a problem, and sometimes it is,
you really do wanna see the entire state of all of the,
because it might help you debug it.
Like, oh, this, like the, I returned a,
the return code of a webpage was like 400
and I expect it to be 200.
But you might wanna do--
- If you could see the message,
you would be so much better.
- Yeah, if you could see more
or if you're testing the title and that's wrong,
but you know what I mean?
If you can see more than one bit of information, it helps.
- Yep.
Now I think that's also to be differentiated
as we'll get to later and some other tips from,
well, there's different cases like,
What if I pass it a zero and I pass it a 10
or something above a hundred, all these different inputs,
and then I want to test every, that's a different story.
- Oh yeah.
- Right, right, so we'll get to that.
All right, what's next?
- Well, I wanted to, since we're talking
about structuring a test function,
I thought it'd be great to just remind people
that you have a whole suite.
So it's good to function, to think about
how you're structuring your whole test suite.
And by test suite, I just mean a directory of stuff
that has tests in it.
You can, being pytest allows you to have your tests
interspersed with your code,
but I haven't seen that for a long time.
A lot of people just have really a tests directory
and that's what I'm used to.
Anyway, or a couple, a couple of directories.
Like I often have an examples directory that I want,
I wanna make sure all those examples still work
like for pytest plugins.
And I also want to have the tests themselves pass.
But anyway, structuring the test directory is good.
There's a bunch of ways to do it.
I like to separate based on functionality.
So different behaviors of a system
and conceptual separations of the system
into different functionality bits
and separate those into directories.
You can also structure it based on like sub actual software
subsystems in your software.
And then some people do like the same code structure.
So they have like the exact same directory structure
in their tests as they do in their source code.
But I think just thinking,
making sure you think about it and don't just,
no, don't just think there's one answer.
It's really how you wanna run the tests.
And it helps me if I'm,
like if I'm working on a behavior or sub,
if you're normally working on a subsystem at that level,
then subsystem makes sense to test.
So you can just, like I'm working on my particular bit
of code and so I'm running those tests related to that.
You know, it's kind of how you're running the test
is how you're going to, anyway.
It also-- - Yeah, depends how you
think about it, right? - Yeah.
- And how it's organized in your brain.
- Also, there's reporting considerations.
So if you're reporting to outside people
that your tests are passing in different chunks,
it might, the reporting might be easier
if you're structured one way versus another.
So.
- So let's see here.
The structured like your software or subsystems,
that's straightforward to me.
Like I've got a data access layer.
So here's my tests that test the data access layer,
presumably mocking out the database, but maybe not.
When you think about having subdirectories,
you would just have maybe subdirectories of those.
And I guess another you could think about
is like really, really slow integration style tests
versus more units, for lack of a better word, tests.
Right, like these are the ones,
excuse me, these are the ones I can run now.
These are the ones that take an hour.
Let me run the ones that could take now.
How do you, what's your style?
- Well, I do actually, so I do,
I'm not really that great at like throwing in unit tests
'cause I don't really see much value in unit tests.
I know that I have to have behavior in like tests
that test the user, the end user functionality.
- Yeah.
- At the point where that is testing all of my code,
then I don't feel the need to add unit tests,
but there are times where they are needed, which is great.
I do think it's great to separate those.
So the top hierarchy of separating
behavior versus unit tests into one big chunk.
The main reason why I like that is because
I really want my behavior tests to be,
if I'm gonna do coverage, I really wanna know
if my behavior tests are covering all of my code.
It doesn't really help me much to know
that my unit tests are covering all my code
because that could lead to dumb tests.
(laughs)
That really, I mean, I might be able, tempted to,
there might be a corner case in my code
that I can write a unit test for,
but I can't reach otherwise.
So I think it's better just to delete the code.
- Yeah.
Honestly, we might get our pytest certifications taken away,
but, or our Agile certifications taken away.
I don't have one.
But I agree with you completely that some of these larger scale tests
that kind of test larger bits of code,
they're really, they might not be 100% on catching all the little things you could test,
but usually if I break something, many of those break.
You know, it's usually enough to catch the mistakes.
Yeah.
And they're easier to write 20 big scale tests
than a thousand small ones.
- I've also never had a customer reported issue
that could be reproduced as a unit test.
Just saying.
- Yeah.
Avaro out there says,
pytest docs introduces,
or yeah, talks about a slow mark just for that use case,
which we will.
We will get to marks as well,
but that's definitely a good recommendation.
So maybe not actually using the directory structure
for slow, but using marks.
So coming back to that, but let's carry on.
- Yeah, well--
- That was structuring a test suite.
- Okay, so I don't know how the transition is here,
but I picked fixtures as the next thing.
I think one of the first things people need to get used to
with pytest is fixtures,
because it is the big brain shift
from any other test framework.
And it's, they're pretty cool.
So it's really just a function that's split in half.
We've got a setup half and a tear down half
and they're separated by a yield keyword
that separates the setup and tear down
and pytest will call that before they're testing
and then finish it up afterwards.
That's about it.
- Well, I think part of the transition is
He talked about the three A's,
they arrange, act and assert.
The arrange part, if that's gonna get reused,
well, fixtures are pretty well built for that.
And you could have more than one fixture in a test, right?
You can say this part arranges the database
and this part arranges, I don't know,
some set state of the app that you're gonna,
you know, make them collide and see what happens.
- Yeah, or connections to resources
and all sorts of stuff, yeah.
or data, you can have fixtures that generate data for you.
And there's many that do that.
But one of the things,
I guess I should have this as one of the tips,
in writing a test, I recommend putting,
like, especially the first test
for something you write down, just write it in the test.
Now, when you go to write the second one,
that's a good time to go,
how much of this setup is shared?
And if all of the setup is shared mostly,
then you can throw, maybe it makes sense
to throw that in one or more fixture.
But I do, I have seen people just copy it.
There's just like take it and put it into a fixture
and I call the fixture setup.
That's, you can do that.
It's a little dangerous though
because what are you setting up?
I'd rather have it be maybe multiple different ones
like setup database or configure the network
or something like that.
Have it be descriptive.
You've got a word there.
Setup just doesn't say much, so say something, I guess.
- Well, that goes back to the whole part of testing
that is documentation of how the system works.
And part of that should be really good names for your tests.
You have the advantage that no one is ever gonna try
to use your test code as an API.
So it can be a ridiculous name,
like 15, 20, 30 characters,
'cause no one's gonna be upset
that the test runner doesn't care that the name is long.
- Yeah, but the person that is gonna look at it
is either you or somebody else
when something's broken and they're stressed out.
So when they're trying to get done with their day
and the test doesn't work
and they're looking at the code going,
what are we doing here?
So yeah, being verbose there is fine.
In back to the RF world,
like let's say I'm setting up both a transmitter
and a receiver before a test.
I might be tempted to throw both of those in one fixture,
but I'm almost, and I have before,
but I almost always end up splitting those up
and have like set up transmitter, set up receiver,
set up measurement system, have those separate
because they're more reusable as parts later and stuff.
- Right, maybe you need a receiver, not a transmitter
for some particular reason somewhere, yeah.
- Another thing is it's okay to not reuse fixtures
and they can be in the same file.
So you can, if you just have like this huge setup
and a little tiny, like do something section,
it's really nice to just throw that into a fixture.
There's lots of reasons to throw that in the fixture.
One of the great reasons is you can put asserts
in the fixture and you don't wanna sprinkle asserts
through your test because then your test fails
and you're like, was the setup failure or not?
But pytest is awesome that if the assert happens
in the fixture, it doesn't report the test as a failure,
it reports as an error.
So fixture asserts are errors and then,
so you can separate when you're seeing
all of your entire system's failing,
but there's really only one failure
and all the rest of them are errors,
it might be that you're just not connecting
to the database or something like that.
- Yeah, interesting.
Out in the audience, Jeff says,
"One thing I missed on my first trials,
"my test is the differentiation between error and fail."
Which sounds a lot like what you're talking about there.
- Oh yeah, and his comment around unit tests,
'cause unit tests is a little different.
- Unit test makes the, I think it's the assertion error
versus other exceptions.
So I think that's the case in unit test
that if you, if it's like an assertion error, it's a failure.
And if it's any other exception, it's an error.
Py test, completely different.
Any exception, assertion or otherwise
that happens within the test itself is a failure.
And any exception that happens that's uncaught
in a setup or in a fixture, that's an error.
So--
>>No, that's cool.
I didn't realize that differentiation.
Also a question from Thomas.
If you're just having the fixture there to provide data,
is it necessary to use yield instead of just returning
the value?
>>I usually just return the value.
I only use yield if I have some work to do for a teardown.
>>Yeah.
>>So--
>>I think also it's just kind of interesting,
the, that yield and what a clever use of generators, right?
- Yeah, it's very clever and also very nice
because in, you can have variables there
that are needed for the cleanup,
but you like, but you don't need to return to anybody
or something or save them in a global variable.
They can just be in the function and that's it.
So like, you know, database connect to the database, keep a handle to the database
so that you can close it at the end.
Uh, it's very,
right.
Or start a transaction and roll it back.
So it's whatever you did to it's unaffected.
Yeah.
Oh yeah.
Cool.
All right.
What's next.
That was fixtures.
Um, well, so if you've been using more fixture, yeah, more, just, just you, you
made this comment and I I'm like, I've been doing Pytest so long that I forgot
about it. Old time pytest stuff had to add finalizer before we
kind of settled on the yield system. I would say avoid add
finalizer, it's just going to confuse people. So don't do
that. Also, you can nest them. So leveraging, use it using
scopes. So you can have like, connect to a database by a
session scope, and then cleaning up the database as a function
scope thing so that you're, you know, save time.
And then conf test files, if you want to share them
between just between, between tests,
you can throw the fixture in a conf test file.
- Yeah, it's not necessarily obvious that if I put a fixture
and then I have a bunch of tests below in the same file,
it's obvious I can just use it.
But then if I go to another one, I could be like, well,
what about, what about those over there?
I want to share them across these files.
So this conf test, this is what that's about, right?
- Yeah, and a lot of people think you can,
or their first attempt is to throw them all
into a different module and import the module.
You can't do that, don't do that.
And you never want to import the conf test file.
It's not an importable thing.
It's just pytest deals with it.
- Yeah, indeed.
- And okay, so on fixtures,
there's a bunch of built-in ones that are super cool.
And in the long time,
like if you've used pytest for a while,
We used to have, and we still do,
a couple of fixtures called Tempter and TempterFactory.
But there's newer ones, they've been in for a while,
but some people don't know about them,
called TempPath and TempPathFactory.
And they use pathlib path objects, which are awesome.
So use that if you can.
- It took me a while to love the path class,
but I love it now, it's really nice.
- Yeah, and also, I mean, the old one was like,
just this py.path.local object,
which was very undocumented.
So I don't recommend it.
The temp files within pytest, so it's great.
If you're like in a,
if you're generating a file or whatever,
we want to save some CSV stuff, it's good.
It's, it sticks around too, which is kind of cool.
It sticks around for a little while.
So you can interrogate your temp files,
like after a test run is done,
you can look at the, and if you're trying
to debug the failures, those temp files will still be there.
They're not cleaned up directly after,
they're cleaned up in a future test run.
- Oh, that's interesting.
- Yeah.
- They're like a N minus one or N plus one lifespan
or something.
- Yeah.
There's a bunch of built-in fixtures.
There's only a handful I use very much.
I use a Tempath and Tempath.
So there's Tempath and Tempath Factory.
The factory versions are used if you,
'cause Tempath like is a per test run,
like per like every function it gets generated.
So you can't use it if you've got a session scope fixture.
So the factory ones are session scoped.
So if you wanna use it,
anything larger than function scope,
use the factory to generate a temp directory.
So use that.
- Cool.
Yeah, I got it.
Capsys, a lot of, if you want to look at,
if you're checking your output,
Capsys is good for checking the output of something,
the standard out or standard.
- Because pytest captures and eats some of it, right?
- Yeah, by default, pytest will always capture the errors
and output and only print it out for,
it prints it out for failing tests.
It'll say, oh, here's the output for the test and it failed.
So that's helpful, but it's normally gone.
And if you want to, so there's,
you can use caps as also just to disable that
for temporary bits of your code.
If you want to throw a log out there all the time
or something, you can use that.
So, but I usually use it just to look at the output.
So especially with pytest plugins,
I want to see if I've modified the output,
I want to see the output.
So I can use that to grab that.
There's monkey patch as well to,
I, you can use this for all sorts of stuff,
but I usually, if I'm doing fancy things,
they usually like actually use just mock,
unit test mock.
But for things like changing your environment, it's great.
So you can change environmental variables
or quick patches, it works great.
The neat things about these,
other than just doing yourself,
is that it cleans up afterwards.
So if you patch like a system
with like a dummy bit of system or something
after your test is done,
it goes back to what it was before.
So that's pretty cool.
- Yeah, because otherwise you can end up with a problem
of the order of operations
is left in this half patched state
where something else depends upon it, right?
- Yep.
Yeah.
pytest config is used for grabbing command line flags a lot.
That's mostly what I use it for.
And then the only thing I usually use request for anymore
is if from a fixture, I wanna know what the test name was.
I can use, you can use request node name
to grab the test name.
I don't think I use it for anything anymore,
anything else anymore, except for parameters
to grab the parameter values.
Yeah, anyway.
- Nice.
All right, I pointed out Mark or audience.
They pointed out Mark and here we are, Mark.
- Markers.
So pytest.mark.whatever, you can use custom markers.
Markers are great, but don't,
when I learned about markers, I put them everywhere
and then I'm like, oh, that's just sort of,
it ends up being messy.
So it can be, but it's a great way to,
it's like just adding a tag to a test or a test case
or something to say that you can use it to run it.
So you can say, I wanna run all the tests
that are marked like user interface.
You can run all the UI tests.
If you didn't separate them by directory
or like somebody said, you can mark all the slow ones
and only run the slow ones or avoid running the slow ones.
- So you can do a not in your execution.
You can say, run the things not marked slow.
- Yeah, you just say, well, it's dash M.
I should throw that in there, dash M, like not slow.
- Got it.
but it's two words, so you have to put it in quotes,
like dash M quote, not slow.
It'll work.
And you can mark files with a magic word,
magic keyword called pytest mark with no spaces.
If you throw that in your file, pytest will see it.
So there's a bunch of built-in ones, marks.
The ones that I think are probably most common
are skip, skip if and xfail.
And I guess-
- X, did you expect it to fail?
Like I know it's failing, but that's okay.
- Yeah, so a lot of people might think,
why would you ever expect a test to fail?
You just fix it.
- No, no, no, no, no, no.
It's Friday, three o'clock, you got plans.
But you gotta fix the build.
- Yeah.
- No, seriously though, why would you use this?
- Well, believe it or not,
some people are not responsible for all the code.
- Yeah.
- There's teams.
So one great reason to use XFail is to submit a defect.
And then you say, I know this test is failing
because of this issue.
You've submitted a defect
and then you throw the defect number
in the XFail reason string and move on.
Now your build is still working.
But just be careful.
I mean, X-Fails is big thing.
So I think as, whether or not you use X-Fail,
it needs to be like your entire software team
needs to understand it and agree on the process
because there needs to be a process
around how to utilize X-Fail
because it can just sort of hide failures
and you don't want that.
That's one of the reasons why I really like X-Fail Strict
that it makes it so that all,
it makes it so that like, if they pass,
if you mark it as fail and it passes, it'll just pass.
But we want it to, well, it X passes,
expected, which means I expected it to fail, but it passed.
But I like to just have it be a failure,
which so that somebody can look at it and go,
oh yeah, we need to take these out of the test
and close the defect or something like that.
The other thing that people should be aware of
that I don't think a lot of people know
is a dash dash run X fail flag.
And this is especially useful like to just say,
okay, screw it, ignore all the X fails
and just run as if I hadn't marked them X fail.
And so that you--
- Maybe they are fixed and you don't know,
maybe they didn't take away the X fail.
- Yeah, but they might, or you just wanna make,
like in a CI system, for instance,
Like if you're running, most CI systems don't understand
all of the different variations of like outputs
from pytest, like they don't understand X passes,
X fails and skips and all that sort of stuff.
So, and a lot of times then X fails and X passes
just show up as just passes and fails.
And so you don't want just to pass everything.
So run X fail, if you just wanna say,
I wanna just run everything
and if there's any failure, I wanna see it.
So that's good.
But just be careful with X fails.
I've seen it confused people.
- Yeah, it makes sense.
What's the story with skip and skip it?
- I guess it's the same.
I mean, like, why are you skipping something?
I guess you have to be careful.
So skip is just skip this test.
It doesn't run it at all.
And skip if you can put logic in there to say like,
well, if it's on, and so a great example of skip if is
if you've got operating specific,
like maybe if you have operating specifics,
chunks of tests or chunks of code or something.
- Skip if platform equals Darwin, the macOS ones.
- Something like that. - You got no chance.
- Yeah, or if we're talking coverage in unit test again,
for example, maybe you've got functionality
that depends on Python 3.12,
but you're also wanna test on Python 3.7.
And so you know some code is only gonna run,
you're running different code
for the same functionality on two Pythons.
You might wanna like have two tests
and one of them gets run on Python 3.11
and one of them or 12 and one of them gets run
on all of the other versions.
And you can use skip if to gate those.
>> Interesting. Okay. Yeah, that's really cool.
Hey, before we move on, we've got an interesting question
or idea out here from Jeff in the audience,
who also is a hardware tester.
Said, "I'd like to distribute fixtures in some way
to people as a Python package."
>> That's a great idea.
>> Yeah. What do you think about that?
>> I think that's a plugin.
So let's jump to plugins then.
Did I have a plugin section?
I didn't, maybe I don't.
Let's go to the top.
- Well, notes for a new section.
- Yeah, plugins.
- It's a living blog post.
- Yeah.
So yes, I think it's important to be able
to package them as plugins.
And we don't cover,
plugins are kind of a little advanced thing.
I don't think we cover using plugins in the course,
but in three and a half hours,
I don't cover how to write a plugin.
- Yeah. - Nothing.
But there's a ton of plugins on,
yeah, you've got the pytest plugin list on pytest,
but also you can search for,
they're usually pytest dash something.
So you can search for that on PyPI as well
and see a bunch of plugins.
- Yep, you even have some out there for yourself, right?
- Yeah, quite a few actually. - There's a lot.
I mean, I'm scrolling and scrolling,
I'm still in the dash A.
(laughing)
That's a lot of content there.
So I guess one tip is people should just go
scroll through that list and go,
look at all these things they could just fixture into there.
- Yeah.
Or one option is to go to PyCascades this year
and watch my talk,
because I'm giving a talk at PyCascades
for about packaging pytest fixtures.
- That's cool.
When is that?
- That is March.
- It's coming up soon, right?
- Something.
It's in March.
I should look it up.
- Nice.
- Real time.
- Yeah, I'm pretty sure those videos will be online
afterwards if people are not at the conference in Vancouver.
Although Vancouver is lovely.
- Yeah.
Oh yeah, they'll be online.
And I'm also gonna publish the slides.
I just got the slides done.
So it's March 18th through the 20th.
And I think mine's on the 19th.
- Cool.
All right, nice.
Cool.
>> Yeah.
So anyway--
>> All right.
What section do you want to do next?
We got a little bit more time.
>> Well, so we talked about markers and fixtures.
Parameterization is definitely something
I think people should learn about.
And because, especially if you--
I've seen a lot of test writing utilize
is copy, paste, modify.
And I mean, it should be a red flag
for all software engineers,
but for some reason it happens a lot in test code
of copy, paste, modify.
You got a bunch of tests that are kind of the same
and you just take one that's similar to what you need
and change it.
You end up with a lot of test code that way.
And one way to fix it is to use parameterization.
- Yeah, anytime you've got a lot of,
you're like, this is happening over and over again
in my code, it should be, it's a code smell, right?
You should know there's some refactoring.
Or alternatively, Brian,
you could get this fancy new Stack Overflow keyboard.
(Brian laughing)
- That's awesome.
Which has three keys.
- Yes, exactly, go ahead.
Three keys, one of them goes to stack overflow.
One of them is copy and one of them is C and V.
So copy and paste.
So that's awesome.
- Power of copy and paste, indeed.
- I assume you have to have a mouse connected to,
to select the stuff too.
But it really does happen a lot of people
like copy another test, change what they need
and then run it.
Now there's a bunch of problems with that.
One is people sometimes forget to change the test name.
And then the test, so the test,
if you can have two functions with the same name in Python
and it just like runs the second one.
So that's one of the reasons why I'd like
to also run coverage.
If I'm gonna run coverage, I want coverage on my tests too.
So, and to make sure I have 100% test code coverage.
- So what happens when you run into that scenario
on pytest, does it just pretend the first one wasn't there
and it got overwritten before it got to it?
- Yeah, just like, you know, any other,
in any other Python module,
if you write the function name again,
it's, and even if you have different parameters,
- It's so easy to do, it doesn't care.
- It doesn't, Python doesn't care.
- Yeah, so different web frameworks
will handle this differently.
Flask will throw an error and say,
you've tried to use this function before,
no, and do an app.get or something on it with the decorator.
>> Yeah.
>> For example, Pyramid, which I've used a lot,
doesn't, it just erases it.
So you just end up getting 404s for whatever was there before.
You're like, "Well, it was just working. Where did it go?
I didn't even touch that part of the program and it's just gone.
It's like, I don't understand."
I can only see that it's even less obvious with pytest.
Like that, you would, how much would you notice
when it goes dot, dot, dot, dot, dot,
that like it didn't increment a dot
when you added a test?
Might not.
- No, well, yeah, it's dangerous, but okay.
So you get around that.
It's the other thing of just like thinking about it.
So if I write a test to begin with and I think,
Well, I've set up like, okay, so if I go to this web,
really I'm just making like a webpage thing.
I just wanna make sure this page gets a 200.
Is it 200, right?
For the good. - Yeah, yeah.
Yep. - And I wanna make sure
that gets 200 in the titles, right?
Or something like that.
Now, I might have just a list.
I mean, that would be an easy test
just to make sure all my pages, normal pages are alive
is to just go through and test all those.
Now, I could either just have a list
of all the different pages I wanna go to
and just ping through those.
And that could be a loop within my test,
but that's a loop within a test
at the assert at the bottom
that doesn't count as the assert at the bottom.
It's because you're asserting through the whole thing.
Mace will just make that a parameterization
and go through all the different pages you wanna hit.
And for each of those pages, make sure it's a 200.
And then you could also like have the title
in the parameterization to say,
This is the page, this is the title.
Now for each of those, go through and test it.
And those are different tests.
And it's gonna be almost as easy to write one test
as it is to write now a bunch of test cases
with parameterization.
But pytest has a whole bunch of cool parameterization tricks.
You can do function parameterization,
you can parameterize a fixture,
you can even use pytest generate tests
to do some fancy parameterization.
But I, for the most part, if you're new to it,
stick with function parameterization.
It's powerful and hopefully that's all you need.
So.
- Yeah, if you've got all these different cases to test,
I mean, the value of testing often
is to give it the good value
and see the good value comes out.
- Yeah. - That's true.
But it's also really valuable
to give it all those weird edge cases
where you wanna check boundaries.
Like if I give it one less than it should have,
it should tell me that's an error instead of crash.
If I give it something,
you know, like just all the little weird situations.
So testing all the failing cases
and having those scenarios as a parameterized story is nice.
- And one of the comments, which I have seen before,
and I kind of agree with,
is that my code is dry and my tests are wet.
What that means, and I,
what that means is because dry testing,
(laughs)
People can go overboard with dry
to the point where you can't understand what's going on.
And so for, especially for tests,
you want tests to tell a story of,
I'm doing this thing and I did this other action
and then now I can tell that it works because of this.
And if you break that story up too much,
then you don't know what the story is.
So if like, if you hide your, all of your asserts
in a helper function that just says like check stuff,
it doesn't, you don't know what you're checking
and it hides it too much.
If you're gonna do that, make sure that you like name it
something that is meaningful.
And I like to have all of my assert helpers
be start with assert.
So like I could say, assert 200 and correct title,
for instance, you could do that.
That'd be fine.
but one of the reasons for parameterization
isn't just to type less,
it's to be focused on what's failing.
So let's say in that case I had before,
my test failed with the loop,
and I could say, well, okay,
so one page on my website isn't working, which one?
I have to go figure that out.
I have to look at the error message.
But if I had them iterated on the page name,
I could go, oh, my contact one isn't returning.
So there's something wrong with my contact page
and I know exactly where to go.
So isolating the test failure is good.
- Yeah, there was a comment before about
if you have multiple search,
you might not see all of the errors,
all the details about that.
And we talked a little bit about that too.
And this helps show the status for the different parameters
instead of I just loop through all the options
and make sure they all pass or there's an error.
- Yeah, yep.
And with like a website, for instance,
there might be two pages.
Whereas if you had them all in a loop,
you'd only see the one, you're like,
oh, contact pages for it was broken, I'll go fix that.
And you come back, oh, something else is broken.
Whereas if it had like three failures,
you'd be like, oh, like seven of them are failing,
all of a sudden, something else must be wrong.
But anyway.
- Yeah, related sort of on that same side,
in my mind, this is like it taken to the maximum
of parameterization is things like hypothesis,
where you don't even tell what the parameters,
you're like, vary some ideas and give it to the test.
What do you think about this?
You find this useful for you?
- Well, it doesn't, I do.
Hypothesis is an awesome tool.
It doesn't really,
it helps you think about a problem differently
'cause you have to think about like, what are the,
'cause you can't say like add,
you can't test add by making sure that it returns four
because it's only gonna return four in particular cases.
But you can say, hmm, maybe all the,
test a whole bunch of positive numbers
and I wanna make sure that the result is positive.
And so there's like these aspects
of your system that you can test for.
But the other thing that Pyth hypothesis is awesome at
isn't actually testing the output.
It's just making sure your code doesn't blow up.
So throwing a hypothesis at systems,
I think the first awesome thing about it
is just it tests some corner cases
that your code might not handle right.
So anything that throws an exception
is gonna get dealt with as, you know,
pytest is gonna fail because an exception's hit.
So that helps.
- Maybe not everyone is familiar with the hypothesis.
Maybe just tell them like a little bit how it works
and how it's like primitivization, but not exactly.
- Well, hypothesis is just going,
so you set up strategies and different things around,
and they're decorators you put on top of your test.
And then like, you've got an example of like,
given a string that's text, and then you have S.
So somehow a hypothesis will fill in the variables
that you put there.
Like normally if a test had a parameter,
it would either be a parameterization or a fixture,
but hypothesis utilizes that also
and fills it in with hypothesis values.
And so if you give it, if you say it's a string,
it'll come up with a whole bunch of them
and it'll run your test a whole bunch of times based on,
and I don't remember what the default is,
but it's quite a few.
It also checks the time, I think.
It doesn't make sure it doesn't like run for hours
or something like that,
but you can tell it how robust to do
and it just like makes up stuff.
But the people behind the hypothesis
actually are pretty good at coming up
with some decent test cases
that break a lot of kinds of software.
So that bit of that we think of as a test,
The old style that you think of as a test engineer of coming up
with wacky values, you don't need that anymore.
You can just have hypothesis come up with wacky values for you.
Right.
Think of strategies of, well, these scenarios
we should try to run through and just have it automatic.
But it's like things that you don't know that are
constraints on your system.
Like maybe your input system, hypothesis tells you, guess what?
It breaks on all German names or something like that.
or Unicode and you're like, oh, yeah, actually I don't,
that's neat, but I don't actually expect it
to ever get called with Unicode.
So you can restrict the strategies and stuff.
But, so Jeff asks, I can't hear you.
- Oh, sorry.
Yeah, just maybe the last thing on hypothesis here is,
Jeff asks, "How reproducible are tests with hypothesis?"
- I don't know.
- They do say that it remembers the failing example.
So into like SQLite database or something.
So maybe it'll replay that potentially
and I'll try the failing ones before,
but I haven't played with that either.
- I think it reports like some seed thing or something
that you can reseed it to be the same run
or something like that.
- Yeah, there's a whole section
on reproducing failures here.
And it does say you can provide,
one of the things you can say is provide examples
of in addition to the random stuff you pick,
please do these things.
And so I suppose you could take a failing one
and put it in there.
Or if you always do it with the same seed,
that it's randomness becomes deterministic.
Yeah.
(laughing)
Which is kind of odd, but.
- Pseudo random is part of CS, yes.
- Yes, indeed.
Brian, we're pretty short on time.
What else do you want to throw out there real quick
before we--
- I think I want to circle back to the beginning
and just say pytest can do a whole bunch of cool stuff.
Don't do it all at once.
Gradually add bells and whistles,
especially if you're working on a team
because it's a different mindset.
So it's a make sure that the team is all up to speed.
You want to make sure that, like all software,
Don't design a system so complex
that you're not smart enough to debug it.
- I love thinking about that.
That's a really good way to put it.
Because if you write the most clever code that you can,
you're right at the limit of your ability
to like keep it in your mind and understand it.
And debugging code is harder than writing code, so.
- You're not qualified to debug your own code.
- You're writing codes that you can't,
writing code that your body can't pay the check for
or whatever.
- Yeah, I can't remember who said that first,
but it's definitely very true.
- It is indeed.
Awesome.
Well, thank you for putting this together.
Obviously I'll link to this in the show notes.
People can check out your course,
they can check out your book
and yeah, it's all your other pytest things.
And we're looking forward to having test and code back.
- And also everybody should, that's listening here
should be listening on Python Bytes.
I think you'll enjoy it.
- I agree.
A lot of fun over there.
- All right.
Thanks a lot, Michael.
- Yeah.
Thank you for being here, Brian.
Thank you everyone for listening.
See y'all later.
[BLANK_AUDIO]